# Measurement and Analysis of Non-Ionizing Radiation Levels in Residential Environments Emitted by Wi-Fi Routers
Authors: Fernanda E. S. Galdino, Júlia da L. A. Silva, Gutembergue Soares da Silva, Fred Sizenando Rossiter Pinheiro, Marcio E. C. Rodrigues, Vicente A. de Sousa Jr., Halysson B. Mendonça, Ricardo Q. de F. H. Silva, Vitor F. C. de Carvalho, Lucas I. C. Medeiros e João V. L. da Silva

Abstract: Due to the low cost of broadband systems, there is a substantial growth in the indoor deployment of networks based on IEEE 802.11 standards, and their expressive insertion in domestic and labor environments. The proximity of those systems to the general population has been raising questions about the risks of exposure to the so-called non-ionizing radiation (NIR), since network equipment is radiofrequency electromagnetic field emitter. This work aims to measure and evaluate the levels of non-ionizing radiation by verifying the intensity of the NIR generated by the wireless network devices in residential environments. The ISM 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz frequencies used in Wi-Fi systems are the focus of this investigation. The measurements were conducted and analyzed according to Act No. 458 (January 2019) of the National Telecommunications Agency (ANATEL) and Law nº 11. 934 (May 2009). Measurements of electric field (EF, in V/m) are compared to the exposure limits for the general public, as established by Brazilian legislation. Thus, the highest measurement for EF peak value was 7.16 V/m, corresponding to a percentage of 11.74% of ANATEL limit.

